Update Cypress E2E docs (#660)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/contribute/webapp/end-to-end-tests.md

## Quick Overview on How to Run E2E Testing

> ### In Local Development Machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### On Your Local Development Machine
```

Author: Thanks, updated.

> ### On Your Local Development Machine

Reviewer 2: Would we recommend developers to run them locally or on the CI pipeline?

1.  Run a local server instance by initiating `make run` to the mattermost-server folder. Confirm that the instance has started successfully.
    - Run `make test-data` to preload your server instance with initial seed data.

>     - Each test case should handle the required system or user settings, but in case you encountered some unexpected error while testing, you may want to run the server with default config based on `mattermost-server/config/default.json`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each test case should handle the required system or user settings, but in case you encounter an unexpected error while testing, you may want to run the server with default config based on `mattermost-server/config/default.json`.
```

> 2.  Change directory to `mattermost-webapp/e2e`, install npm dependencies by `npm i`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  Change directory to `mattermost-webapp/e2e`, and install npm dependencies by running `npm i`.
```

>     - Initiate `npm run cypress:run` in the command line to start full E2E testing except for those specs at `/cypress/integration/enterprise` folder which requires Enterprise license to run successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Initiate `npm run cypress:run` in the command line to start full E2E testing. This excludes the specs in the `/cypress/integration/enterprise` folder as they require an Enterprise license to run successfully.
```

>     - Initiate `npm run cypress:open` in the command line to start partial testing depending on which spec is selected via Cypress' desktop app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Initiate `npm run cypress:open` in the command line to start partial testing depending on which spec is selected via Cypress's desktop app.
```

    - Initiate via node CLI to selectively run specs based on test metadata, e.g. `node run_tests.js --group='@accessibility'` which will run all specs with `@accessibility` metadata.
3.  Tests are executed according to your selection and will display whether the tests passed or failed.

### In Continuous Integration Pipeline

> We are running all tests in our Continuous Integration (CI) pipeline. However, they are grouped according to test stability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We run all tests in our Continuous Integration (CI) pipeline. However, they are grouped according to test stability.
```

> 1. __Daily production tests against development branch (master)__ - initiated on master branch by `node run_tests.js --stage='@prod'` in the command line. These are tests, known as production tests, which were selected and labeled with `@prod` [test metadata](/contribute/webapp/end-to-end-tests/#adding-test-metadata-on-spec-files). See <a target="_blank" href="https://community-release.mattermost.com/core/pl/i3kg97o1fir9pje7yi8wecd45r">link</a> for an example test run posted in our community channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. __Daily production tests against development branch (master)__ - Initiated on master branch by `node run_tests.js --stage='@prod'` in the command line. These are tests, known as production tests, which were selected and labeled with `@prod` [test metadata](/contribute/webapp/end-to-end-tests/#adding-test-metadata-on-spec-files). See <a target="_blank" href="https://community-release.mattermost.com/core/pl/i3kg97o1fir9pje7yi8wecd45r">link</a> for an example test run posted in our community channel.
```

> 2. __Daily production tests against release branch__ - same as number 1 except the test is initiated against release branch. See <a target="_blank" href="https://community-release.mattermost.com/core/pl/mhtepy6p33gi9fp33fsek161qr">link</a> for an example test run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. __Daily production tests against release branch__ - Same as above except the test is initiated against the release branch. See <a target="_blank" href="https://community-release.mattermost.com/core/pl/mhtepy6p33gi9fp33fsek161qr">link</a> for an example test run.
```

Author: I'm good per comment but I remember before that someone said to avoid positional argument like the word "above" when referring to a certain location of the article.

> 3. __Daily unstable tests against development branch (master)__ - initiated on master branch by `node run_tests.js --stage='@prod' --invert` in the command line to run all except production tests. We called this as unstable tests which were either consistently or intemittently failing due to automation bug and not as product bug.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. __Daily unstable tests against development branch (master)__ - Initiated on the master branch by `node run_tests.js --stage='@prod' --invert` in the command line to run all except production tests. We call these unstable tests as they either consistently or intermittently fail due to automation bugs and not product bugs.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure that I understood the sentence correctly, so my suggestion may not be accurate. :)

Author: Sounds good to me, thanks!

    - Test cases that require an enterprise license should fall under `/e2e/cypress/integration/enterprise/`. This is to easily identify license requirements, both during local development and production testing for enterprise features.
3. `/e2e/cypress/plugins` or [Plugin Files](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/core-concepts/writing-and-organizing-tests.html#Plugin-files)
    - A convenience mechanism that automatically include the plugins before running every single spec file.
4. `/e2e/cypress/support` or [Support Files](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/core-concepts/writing-and-organizing-tests.html#Support-file)
    - The support file is a place to put reusable behaviour such as Custom Commands or global overrides that are wished to be applied and available to all of spec files.
5. `/e2e/cypress/utils` for common utility functions.
6. `/e2e/cypress.json` for Cypress [configuration](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/configuration.html#Options).
7. `/e2e/package.json` for all dependencies related to Cypress end-to-end testing.

> ## What requires an E2E Test?

Reviewer 2: (nice-to-have) Linking to a PR or a ticket that gives an example for each of these use cases would be nice to have. Some like features and bugs are self-explanatory, but "Cases that are not covered by unit or integration tests" may not be.

Author: Thanks @jasonblais! Links and sample case added. Also replaced the last item with test cases from TM4J.
@justinegeffen I pushed an updates per comment. Please take a look again, thanks!

<img width="791" alt="Screen Shot 2020-07-21 at 12 57 25 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5334504/87964928-87a4b600-caed-11ea-9d29-9c4d4327a43b.png">

  |-- package.json
```

1. `/e2e/cypress/fixtures` or [Fixture Files](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/core-concepts/writing-and-organizing-tests.html#Fixture-Files):
    - Fixtures are used as external pieces of static data that can be used by tests.
    - Typically used with the `cy.fixture()` command and most often when stubbing Network Requests.
2. `/e2e/cypress/integration` or [Test Files](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/core-concepts/writing-and-organizing-tests.html#Test-files)
    - To start writing tests,
        - simply create a new file (e.g. `login_spec.js`) within `/e2e/cypress/integration` folder and;
        - refresh tests list in the Cypress Test Runner and a new file should have appeared in the list.

>     - Subfolder naming convention depends on test grouping, which is usually based on the name of tab in the Release Testing spreadsheet (e.g. `/e2e/cypress/integration/messaging/` for "Messaging" tab).

Reviewer 3: This may be out of scope for these updates, but should we replace `name of tab in the Release Testing spreadsheet` with something like `general functional area`?
```suggestion
    - Subfolder naming convention depends on test grouping, which is usually based on the general functional area (e.g. `/e2e/cypress/integration/messaging/` for "Messaging" tab).
```

1. The [recommended practice](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/best-practices.html#Selecting-Elements) of Cypress is to use `data-*` attribute to provide context to selectors, but we prefer to use element ID instead.
   - If element ID is not present in the webapp, you may add it in `camelCase` form with human readable name (e.g. `<div id='sidebarTitle'>`). Watch out for potential breaking changes in the snapshot of the unit testing.  Run `make test` to see if all are passing, and run `npm run updatesnapshot` or `npm run test -- -u` if necessary to update snapshot testing.
2. Add custom commands to `/e2e/cypress/support`. See Cypress documentation for more details about custom commands [[link](https://docs.cypress.io/api/cypress-api/custom-commands.html)].
   - For ease of use, in-code documentation and discoverability, custom commands should have type definition added. See [declaration file](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-webapp/blob/master/e2e/cypress/support/api/user.d.ts) for reference on how to include.
3. Organize `/e2e/cypress/integration` with a subfolder to group similar tests.

> 4. Each test should have corresponding test case in Test Management for Jira (TM4J). Therefore, the `describe` block should correspond to folder name in TM4J (e.g. "Incoming webhook"), and `it` block should contain `TM4J number` as `Test Key` and test title (e.g. "MM-T623 Lock to this channel on webhook configuration works").  In the spec file, it should be written as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Each test should have a corresponding test case in Test Management for Jira (TM4J). Therefore, the `describe` block should correspond to folder name in TM4J (e.g. "Incoming webhook"), and `it` block should contain `TM4J number` as `Test Key` and test title (e.g. "MM-T623 Lock to this channel on webhook configuration works").  In the spec file, it should be written as:
```

    ```javascript
    describe('Incoming webhook', () => {
        it('MM-T623 Lock to this channel on webhook configuration works', () => {
            // Test steps and assertion here
        }
    }
    ```

    For those writing E2E from help-wanted tickets with `Area/E2E Tests` label, the `Test Key` is available in the [GitHub issue itself](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/issues/10574).

    `Test Key` is used for mapping test cases per Release Testing specification. It will be used to measure coverage between manual and automated tests.

>     In case the `Test Key` is not available, feel free to prompt QA team who will either search from an existing TM4J entry or if it's a new one, it will be created for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In case the `Test Key` is not available, feel free to prompt the QA team who will either search from an existing TM4J entry or if it's a new one, it will be created for you.
```

5. Add check if a certain test requires server license.
    ```javascript
    describe('Test description', () => {
       before(() => {
           // If the test requires a certain licensed feature
           cy.apiRequireLicenseForFeature('GuestAccounts');

           // If server has license in general
           cy.apiRequireLicense();
       }
    }
    ```

> 6. Run test in isolation using a convenient custom command of `cy.apiInitSetup()`. Such command creates a new team, channel and user which can be used by the spec file itself only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Run test in isolation using a convenient custom command of `cy.apiInitSetup()`. This command creates a new team, channel, and user which can be used by the spec file itself only.
```
